SMG: Driving customer loyalty with a data warehouse optimized for advanced
analytics


Key Highlights


Category

Retail & Consumer Products


Impact

    • Helping restaurants and retailers prevent customer churn with predictive
      and prescriptive analytics

    • Delivering aggregated insights to help customers measure their own success

    • Supporting 175,000 smg360 users with 400,000 web and mobile sessions daily

    • Reducing the total cost of ownership by 2.5X


Additional Resources

Download PDF version

Contact Sales

Browse customer stories

Service Management Group (SMG) offers an easy-to-use experience management (XM)
platform that helps brands get smarter about their customers. The XM platform,
smg360, helps customers drive changes that boost customer loyalty and improve
business outcomes. SMG partners with nearly 500 brands across the restaurant,
retail, and healthcare industries.


Challenge

SMG’s business runs on delivering data-driven reports and insightful dashboards
that are unmatched by the competition. Organizations can customize reports,
dissect data and create role-based reports in real-time.

As SMG advanced its platform, the scale, variety, and type of data and
workloads exposed its data infrastructure limitations. SMG has seen exponential
growth in the volume of data it analyzes and expects that growth to continue
for the foreseeable future.

In a world where consumers frequently jump from one device to the next, it
became essential for smg360 to be a truly omnichannel platform.


Solution

The cost of scaling SMG’s legacy data warehouse was prohibitive and as such,
the business wanted to leverage public cloud services to support future growth
and product development. Therefore, it needed a cloud-agnostic platform that
could easily and cost-effectively collect and process 10X more data and grow
beyond it, if required.

Furthermore, SMG knew the future of its business services lay in insights
uncovered via advanced data science and AI algorithms, requiring a platform
that could seamlessly enable the use of those tools.

Taking all of this into account, SMG migrated from its legacy vendor to the
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). With the flexibility to scale on demand and pay
on consumption, SMG was able to keep expenditures low and reduce the total cost
of ownership (TCO) by 2.5X.

“Running in the cloud gives us the flexibility to scale up as needed. So during
the normal course of business it is a smaller environment with fewer nodes.
Then, if and when we need to, we can scale the environment dynamically,” said
SMG Data Architect Kyle Travis.

This included a close partnership with Oalva, SMG’s Hadoop technology service
provider and a proud partner and reseller of Cloudera solutions. Working
together, they were able to complete this transition with minimal customer
impact.

Another key ingredient of the successful transition was Cloudera’s unique
Premier Support offering. With predictive and proactive support, the team was
able to surface and solve potential issues before they occurred.


Results

In its legacy environment, SMG data scientists had to extract data before they
could run machine learning (ML) algorithms. With Cloudera Data Warehouse, the
data is available in an easily consumable form, SMG can unlock its value with
data science, and new use cases are regularly being identified and developed.

One use case currently in flight is customer churn prevention. SMG can now
evaluate behavioral data, transaction data, and survey data, to predict how
likely a customer is to churn. With a sharper understanding of the customer
journey, SMG can quantify the impact of losing a customer and provide
recommended actions for retention and to improve loyalty. These predictive
insights provide valuable benefits to SMG’s customers and allow them to take
action before they lose customers and revenue.

This enhanced smg360 reporting platform, which supports 175,000 users with
400,000 web and mobile sessions daily, enables SMG’s customers to see all of
their brand metrics on a single dashboard. The platform provides real-time
ad-hoc analytics on customer experience feedback and equip customers with
democratized analytics and actionable insights.

“Our new environment allows us to provide some multi-source analytics that we
weren't able to provide before, so that is a tangible customer experience
realization,” said Atkinson.

With fast, multi-source analytics, smg360 is helping brands better understand
and serve customers through new applications and visualizations. One new
feature is tracking history for case management and guest recovery.

Looking to the future, SMG is building out its platform to continue to
capitalize on the latest technological advancements.


“From the beginning, we understood that our use case was not an internal data
project, it was a project in direct service to our customers, fueling the
dashboards they rely on. Cloudera Data Warehouse is critical to keeping our
business running.”

-Chris Atkinson, VP of Architecture, SMG