Thomson Reuters: separating real news from fake news on Twitter in 40
milliseconds

WATCH THE VIDEO


Key highlights


Category

Media


Location

New York, New York, USA


Solution highlights

    • Modern Data Platform: Cloudera Enterprise
    • Workloads: Data Science & Engineering
    • Components: Apache Spark™


Applications supported

    • Social media events monitoring


Data sources

    • Twitter
    • Database of government and nongovernment entities


Impact

    • Uncovered ground-breaking events ahead of major news organizations
    • Captures and detects news events across millions of tweets in 40
      milliseconds
    • Frees journalists to focus on higher level reporting


Big data scale

    • 13 million tweets daily


Additional resources

Download PDF version

Contact Sales

Data Impact Awards Winner

Browse customer stories


Thomson Reuters helps organizations separate fact from rumor on Twitter and
uncovers breaking events in milliseconds with Reuters Tracer, powered by
Cloudera.

Thomson Reuters is the world’s leading source of news and information for the
financial and risk, legal, tax and accounting, and media markets.


Challenge

Today, Twitter is a key news source, with witnesses sharing firsthand
experiences as events unfold. For journalists and businesses, it is a challenge
to not only rapidly make sense of all the tweets, but also separate real news
from fake news and opinions. Thomson Reuters, which works to help journalists
and industry professionals find trusted answers among all the noise, turned to
machine learning and advanced analytics to solve this challenge. “We set out to
build a platform that could understand with great speed if an event was
newsworthy, while maintaining our commitment to accuracy,” said Khalid
Al-Kofahi, head, Corporate Research & Development at Thomson Reuters.


Solution

The company refers to its intelligent news service, Reuters Tracer, as a “bot
journalist in training.” The solution processes about 13 million tweets daily,
capturing events as they happen and determining: is an event true, is it
newsworthy, and what is the scope and impact of that event. If a tweet is an
opinion, Reuters Tracer can determine whether it comes from a recognized
expert, and is therefore of news value. In delivering its results, it provides
journalists and businesses with a “newsworthiness score” for each event that
rates its assessed level of accuracy and credibility.


To assist in evaluating the veracity of an event, we rely on hundreds of
features and have trained the platform to look at the history and diversity of
sources, the language used in tweets, propagation patterns, and much more, just
as an investigative journalist would do.

-Sameena Shah, Director of Research, Thomson Reuters and Lead Scientist,
Reuters Tracer


Implementation

Thomson Reuters powers Reuters Tracer with Cloudera’s modern platform for
machine learning and advanced analytics to achieve the speed and accuracy it
needed in analyzing tweets. “Cloudera provides us with state-of-the-art
technology to help us analyze data, synthesize text, and extract value and
meaning from data to deliver the insights that our customers are looking for,”
said Al-Kofahi. “The whole application is very fast. It takes less than 40
milliseconds to capture and detect events.”


Results

Reuters Tracer helps journalists and businesses keep pace with a rapidly
changing news landscape. “We are in the business of building information-based
solutions for our professional customers in the financial, legal, tax, and
accounting industries, and for Reuters, one of the leading news organizations,”
said Al-Kofahi. “With Reuters Tracer, we can alert our customers when
market-moving events happen as they are reported, without delays. We have
dozens and dozens of examples where Reuters Tracer discovered ground-breaking
events ahead of major news organizations. Additionally, because we help
journalists discover events, they can focus on higher value-add work as opposed
to just reporting on events.”